Okay Deepak Dab, we want to ask you about, little bit about your involvement in Durga
Puja in Cardiff and the Durga Puja festival.
Can you give us a short summary how and when you got involved and how you got involved
and what was the Puja like at that time?
Well, I came to Cardiff in 1978 on actually Shabtami day.
So I finished my work on that day and in the evening I was looking through the yellow pages
to find out, I can find any Bengali names.
So I found to, the first person I rang is Mr. Mishso without knowing whether he was
a Bengali or not, not Bengali.
So luckily he was found to be Bengali and he said there is a Puja.
So I was so delighted.
So he came down to my hotel, picked me up and took me to the parade.
The Puja was being held at the parade at that time.
So I was so delighted to see that few families are involved in that Puja.
And first thing I thought, I took my shoes off from outside of the door and I said, can
I be of any help?
I don't mind doing something for here.
And somebody said, yes, you can do this and that.
So I got involved on the first day.
I went to the Puja organized by Bengali Association Wales and I think it was a delightful experience
on the first day and I never could detach myself from the Puja yet.
How do you think it has developed over the years?
You have been associated with the Puja for a long time.
I think the initial few years I got a feeling that we had a difference of opinion between
some of the members within the group.
But we resolved the issues, whatever we had, and then formed different groups and started
the Puja with the new name WPC.
That was 1982 and 1983.
Am I right, Kanti?
1982 and 1983.
1982.
WPC was formed.
And can you remember some of the fond memories of Puja or the festival itself?
Of course I can.
During the early part of the 80s, I think everybody was very enthusiastic to celebrate
the Puja in here rather than something else.
But I think over the years, we not only wanted to celebrate, but we had to spread the idea
of Durga Puja and the meaningful things related to Durga Puja among our children.
So the angle slightly changed.
We tried to get them involved as well when the children were very, very young.
So they came and watched the Puja and the mingling of people between themselves so that
they can enjoy the union of these people coming to the Puja and trying to relate to
people like us, our age group, trying to relate that to back home.
It's kind of reminiscing the past in that way.
And we were hoping at that time that our children would learn from our mingling with other people
during the Puja.
So once in the whole year, we get together after a few months, a gap of 12 months, 11
months, whatever.
That was the joy of it.
So we enjoyed that occasion very much.
And what do you think has managed to bring the group together and keep it together over
so many years?
I think the majority of the thing is related to the feelings about Durga Puja and the values
in our cultural life.
I think people slowly understood that the cultural aspects of Durga Puja is far more
important than just the religious part of it or celebrating the Puja and doing all sorts
of merrymaking.
I think at a later stage, I think we wanted to spread it around the local people as well
so that the other people can understand us better culturally.
And the cultural cohesion is a little bit enhanced.
So we tried slowly.
We moved our initial Durga Puja feelings to understanding people within the community
we live in.
So we invited other people to organize different events so that we can showcase our cultural
side of our community and the other people can understand us better.
OK.
Thank you very much, Deepak Dhar.
Thank you.